C4 - Introduction to Database and SQL

Class Resume
    1. Database
        Form of data
            Structured data = data stored in database
            Unstructured data
        Database definition
            Database is an organized collection of structured information or data,
                managed by Database Management Systems (DBMS).
        Database Type
            > Relational DB
                - Items stored are organized as a set of tables within
                    columns and rows, each tables is relate with each other.
                - using SQL programming language.
                - RDMS = MySQL, OracleDB, and Microsoft SQL Server.
                - homogeneus (only 1 data type in a column)
                    *spreadsheets are heterogeneus
            > NoSQL DB
                - allows unstructured and semistructured data to be stored and manipulated
                - E.g = MongoDB (document-based), 
                    Cassandra (column-based),
                    Redis (key-value), and Neo4J (graph-based).
            > Cloud DB
                -  collection of data, either structured or unstructured,
                    that resides on a private, public, or hybrid cloud computing platform.
                - two type:
                    traditional
                    database as a service (DBaaS)
                - E.g = BigQuery (relational), 
                    Cloud Firestore (document-based), and
                    Cloud Bigtable (key-value).
    2. Database Schema and ER Diagram
        Component
            Entities = set of object or a set of attributes
            Attributes = characteristic of each entity
            Relationship = Is a connection between one or more entities
            "customers" entities have ["id", "name"] attr and have relation with "order" entities
        Type of entities
            Weak entities
                rely on the strong entity to ensure the existence of the weak entity
                doesnt have primary key
            Strong entities
                 its existence doesn’t dependant on any other entity
        Type of attribute
            Derived attribute
                derivative (turunan) from other attributes,
                often in the form of calculated result between 1 or more attributes
            Multi-value attribute
                takes up more than one for each entity, E.g. email
            Key attributes
                uniquely identifies each entity in the entity set.
        Type of relationship
            One to one
            One to many
            Many to many
        ER Diagram
            Crows foot
            Diamond
    4. SQL 
        Overview
            Programming language that allows communication with databases in order 
            to manage all the data they contain.
        Importance 
            As a data analyst, SQL is important because it can interact directly with the data.
            Hence, we can get to know more about the real-time data from a data warehouse
            (Google BigQuery) without having to wait from others for converting the 
            data format to be analyzed. 
    3. SQL Commands
        General type
            ● Data definition language (DDL)
                define and change the structure of the database in the form of table.
                such as creating, altering, dropping, and truncating the table.
            ● Data manipulation language (DML)
                used for manipulating the data inside of the databases, not making an impact
                to the database schema and table configuration
                such as insert, update, and delete data from table
            ● Data control language (DCL)
                to control the permission of the database to be accessed only with
                the authorized users. 
                lest common used by DA.
        Additional Type:
            ● Data Query Language (DQL)
                used to make a query using SQL Programming Language.
                DQL won’t affect the records of the table even the database and table schema.
                The only statement in DQL is SELECT
            ● Transaction Control Language
        SQL constaints
            NOT NULL        Ensures that a column cannot have a NULL value.
            UNIQUE          Ensures that all values in a column are different.
            PRIMARY KEY     A combination of a NOT NULL and UNIQUE.
            FOREIGN KEY     Prevents actions that would destroy links between tables.
            CHECK           Ensures that the values in a column satisfies a specific condition.
            DEFAULT         Sets a default value for a column if no value is specified.
            CREATE INDEX     Used to create and retrieve data from the database very quickly.
        Data types
            data types is  depending on which database
            engine and environment that we want to use
        DDL Statement
            CREATE 
                create db
                    CREATE DATABASE Database_Name;
                create table with constraint
                    CREATE TABLE Table_Name(Column_Name1 DATATYPE CONSTRAINT, …);
            ALTER
                rename column
                    ALTER TABLE Table_Name RENAME COLUMN Old_Column_Name TO New_Column_Name; 
                add new column
                    ALTER TABLE Table_Name ADD Column_Name DATATYPE CONSTRAINT; 
            DROP
                DROP TABLE Table_Name;
        DML Statement
            INSERT
                exact value for each column
                    INSERT INTO Table_Name VALUES (Column1_Value, Column2_Value,...); 
                with specified column
                    INSERT INTO Table_Name (Column2_Name, Column4_Name)
                        VALUES (Column2_Value, Column4_Value); 
            UPDATE
                UPDATE Table_Name SET Column1 = Value1, Column2 = Value2,... WHERE Condition; 
            DELETE
                DELETE FROM Table_Name WHERE Condition; 
        DCL
            Grant : Grant privileges to the user for the databases and tables.
            Revoke : Revoke the current privileges from users for the databases and tables.
        DQL statement
            SELECT Column_Name1, Column_Name2,...
                FROM Table_Name WHERE Condition; 
    4. Google BigQuery
        Overview
            GCP provide a Google BigQuery as a Data Warehousing services
            To help DA with their needs such as real-time analytics, 
                predictive analytics, and reporting.
        Features
            a. Easy to integrate within google environment.
            b. Real-time analytics.
            c. Using a standard SQL.
            d. Robust for Big Data (in terms of scalability, availability, and security).
            e. Pay As You Go.
            f. Access Anytime, Anywhere.

    5. Making your first SQL query on Google BigQuery

Assignment
1. Create Table
2. Insert Into
3. Delete Statement
4. Select Statement
